---
title: Currency 102: Basic knowledge
---

# Basic knowledge
In this page we seek to cover the most basic commands to get you started with the currency system.

# Credits - Where to start
There are many ways of getting credits in Mantaro. However, we believe that the following commands are good places for you to get started.

## Daily
The command that's most likely to be your first currency command is `/daily`, which you can run every 24 hours for a base of 150$.
However, if you run daily consecutively every 24 hours your streak will increase eventually gaining your more money up to a cap of 1000$ as well as a random crate every multiple of 20 and a Magical Watch every multiple of 50.

Failing to collect your daily for 48 hours results in your streak getting reset to 0.

You can also give the money to someone else (will not affect your streak) yielding them ever so slightly more. To do so simply mention them while running the command.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/daily.png

## Loot
Loot is another command which can be used to gain easy credits. You can run it using `/loot` every ~5 minutes which can yield credits and/or items (more credits than normal when a user is [Premium](basics/premium-perks)).

In certain conditions you can even find unique items.

Take a look at our [Item Documentation page](currency/items) if you want to find out what exact drops you can get.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/loot.png

## Market
The market is the place to go for buying or selling your items.\
For starters, you can use `/market buyable` to bring up a list of all the items you can buy. You can use the arrow reactions to navigate through the different pages.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/market.png

You can use the following commands to buy or sell items:

* /buy `item:`[name of the item] `amount:`[amount of items you want to buy]
* /sell `item:`[name of the item] `amount:`[amount of items you want to buy]

```columns
left:
:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/buy.png

right:
:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/sell.png

```

Additionally, you can view a specific item's sell and buy price with:

* /market price `item:`[name]

You can also get rid of items completely (for instance if they can't be sold) with:
* /dump `amount:`[amount] `item:`[name]

## Profile
Your profile is your main point in the currency system. 
It will display your top items, your balance and a bunch more. 
To view your profile simply use:

* /profile show

To check someone else's profile use: 

* /profile show `user:`[mention]
 
You can also right-click on someone's name, then click on `Apps` and finally on `Show currency profile` to also see their profile.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/profile.png

Your profile has many things you can customize. Here's a few of them:
* Description: To change your description around you can use:
  * /profile description `description:`[your description]
* Display Badge: To change your display badge you can use:
  * /badges display `badge:`[badge name]
  
Note: Of course, you need to have the badge you want to display, but we'll get into that later.
* Timezone: To change your timezone you can use: 
  * /profile timezone `timezone:`[your timezone]
* Widgets: This option is [**Premium only**](basics/premium-perks). With this you can change around the order of how things show up on your profile, or keep them from showing up at all. To get instructions on how to use it, use:
  * /profile widgets
* Birthday: To change your birthday you can use:
  * /birthday set `date:`[dd-MM]

You can also view all sorts of stats involving your activity in Currency using
* /profile stats

Finally, you can change the language in which Mantaro answers you using 
* /profile language `lang:`[language code]
 
Note: You can use `/mantaro language` for more information.

## Balance
Here is where you can check out your current balance. While your balance also shows up in your profile, sometimes you just want to check without all the other information showing up.

To check how many credits you have on your balance use:
* /balance

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/balance.png

## Inventory
Here is where you can check out all your items. Your profile will only show your top items, so here is the place to check all those items you have.\
To check your item list use:
* /inventory show

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/inventory-show.png

If you want a simpler version you can also use: 
* /inventory brief

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/inventory-brief.png

---
# Tools - Where to start
The commands you just learned will help you get started out. However, they won't be enough for what's to come.
For that, the next thing to learn is about tools. There are many tools available, each with different tiers, but for now we will focus on the 3 most basic tools: pickaxe, fishing rod and axe.

:include-template: assets/templates/template-3-column-card.ftl {
items: [
{
name: "Brom's Pickaxe",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/pick.svg",
description: "A normal pickaxe you bought on the local market. Seems sturdy enough to mine some stuff.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
  obtain: "Market, Mine Crates",
  durability: 40,
}},
{
name: "Fishing Rod",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/fishing-pole-and-fish.svg",
description: "A rod you bought at your local fishing market. Looks sturdy.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
  obtain: "Market, Fish Treasure",
  durability: 40,
}},
{
name: "Axe",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/axe.svg",
description: "A normal axe you bought on the local market. Good enough to chop some trees down.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
  obtain: "Market, Chop Crate",
  durability: 35,
}},
]
}


These 3 basic tools are always available for you to buy at the market. As you progress you will be able to create better tools.

## Durability
Most tools at your disposal have a durability value. As you use your tools, this value will continue to drop until your tool breaks.
Durability changes across each type of tool and its different tiers, meaning better tools have more durability.

When your tool does break it will disappear. However, if the tool that broke has a broken item version, then you have ~80% chance of getting the broken version back.
Not all tools have a broken version.

After equipping your tools (see next section), you can check their durability by using:
* /profile stats

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/equipment.png

## Equip and Unequip
To keep going forward first off you will need to equip your new tools. To equip one of your tools you can use:
* /equip `item:`[tool name]

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/equip.png

If you want to unequip one of your tools you can use 
* /unequip `item:`<tool type>

Do bear in mind that the durability of the item you are unequipping comes into play here as well.
If your item has not been used (has 100% durability) you will recover your item when unequipped. However, if you have used the item then two things can happen:
1) If the tool you are unequipping has a broken version, then you will get the broken version back.
2) If the tool you are unequipping doesn't have a broken version, then the tool will be lost, and you will get back some credits instead.

```columns
left:
:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/unequip-confirm.png

right:
:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/unequip-done.png
```


## Mine
Required Tool: Any Pickaxe.

When you use `/mine` you will go mining to get credits and/or items.
The better the pickaxe you use the more credits you will get, and the better chances you will have of finding items. Some items can only be found depending on the quality of your tool.
Each time you mine you will get anywhere from 1 to 4 Mining EXP.

Take a look at our [Item Documentation page](currency/items) if you want to find out what exact drops you can get.


:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/mine.png

## Fish
Required Tool: Any Fishing rod.

When you use `/fish` you will go fishing to get credits and/or items.
The better the fishing rod you use the more credits you will get, and the better chances you will have of finding items. Some items can only be found depending on the quality of your tool.
Each time you mine you will get anywhere from 1 to 4 Fishing EXP.\
Take a look at our [Item Documentation page](currency/items) if you want to find out what exact drops you can get.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/fish.png

## Chop
Required Tool: Any Axe.

When you use `/chop` you will go chopping trees to get credits and/or items.
The better the axe you use the more credits you will get, and the better chances you will have of finding items. Some items can only be found depending on the quality of your tool.
Each time you mine you will get anywhere from 1 to 4 Chopping EXP.\
Take a look at our [Item Documentation page](currency/items) if you want to find out what exact drops you can get.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/102/chop.png

---
