---
title: Currency 103: Intermediate knowledge
---

# Intermediate knowledge
In this page we seek to cover more of the advanced commands available in the currency system. We call them advanced because they usually require you to know or need an item dropped from the previously explained commands.

---
# Tools - Getting an upgrade
If you've been following so far, you have been using the default tools bought at the shop. They don't have a lot of durability, and their chance of getting items isn't that great.
As you might have figured out by now, there are better tools available for you to use. In this section we'll try to teach you about these tools and how to get them.

First things first, the different tool tiers. Not all tools have every single tier (meaning some skip a few tiers), but the order should still be the same.

1) Default tools
2) Diamond tools
3) Comet tools
4) Star tools
5) Moon tools
6) Sparkle tools
7) Hellfire tools

Each tier requires different materials to be created. The better the tool, the rarer the material.\
Some tools allow you as well to get items you were not able to get before. As well, the better the tool you use, the better the drop rate for items.
* Sparkle Fragments can only drop if you use a **Star tool or better**.
* Shells can only drop if you use a **Comet tool or better**.
* Sharks can only drop if you use a **Sparkle tool or better**.


## Casting
Before you start casting items you will need a new tool, a wrench. As with the previous tools, wrenches have different tiers. Different tiers are needed to cast different items, so you will need them eventually.\
Wrenches are different from other tools in that you don't need to equip them. Instead, you specify the wrench you want to use when you cast something.

:include-template: assets/templates/template-card-item.ftl { data: {
name: "Wrench",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/wrench.svg",
description: "A run of the mill wrench you can buy from the market. Useful for repairing items.",
rarity: "Uncommon",
api: {
obtain: "Market",
durability: 35,
tier: 1,
wrenchMulticast: false,
wrenchMultiplier: 0
}}
}

For now go to market and get yourself a few of the default wrenches.

You need to equip your wrench with the `/equip` command, just like you equip your pick, rod or axe.

Casting is the main way in which you will be getting these new tools. You can start by viewing a list of all castable items with `~>cast list`. Check out the items and look at the recipes and prices of each of them.\
To cast the item you can use `/cast item item:<name>`. For example, `/cast item item:Comet Gem`.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/item-cast.png

If you have a better wrench than the default one (which you can cast) you can also equip it to cast Items for cheaper as well as multiple items at once. To cast multiple items at once, put the amount before the item name (For example, `/cast item item:Star Pickaxe amount:5`).


As we mentioned before, remember that if your dust level is too high you won't be able to cast. We explain how to clean your dust a bit further on the Potions section.
If you don't know how to get an item then take a look at our [Item Documentation page](https://github.com/Mantaro/MantaroBot/wiki/Item-Documentation) if you want to find out where exactly you can find the items you need.

## Repairing
Sometimes when your tool breaks you will get a broken version back. With the repair command you can repair your broken tool to use it once again. Just as with cast, you will need a wrench to use this command.
However, the default wrench from the market won't be enough, so cast yourself a better wrench before repairing.\
First off, check out the list of repairable items and their recipes with `/repair list`.
You need to equip your wrench with the `/equip` command, just like you equip your pick, rod or axe. If you have one equipped, you don't need to worry.

After you found the recipe to repair your broken tool you can use `/repair item item:<name>`

## Salvaging
Sometimes you don't want to spend resources repairing a tool, or you simply don't have them. In those cases you might want to consider salvaging your tool.
When you salvage a tool you randomly get back one of its components. First off, check out the list of salvageable items and their possible drops with `/salvage list`.\
To salvage an item you can use `/salvage item item:<name>`. You can use any wrench tier to salvage items. Remember to have it equipped.

---
# Usable items - Where to start
By now you may be wondering if all these items you are collecting have any use at all, and the answer to that is: yes, some of them do.
A full list of the items with actual uses (minus the ones needed for recipes) can be found [here](https://github.com/Mantaro/MantaroBot/wiki/Item-Documentation#usableconsumable-items).
However, in this page we won't cover all the usable items, only a few of them.

## Potions
While not all the items we will cover here are "potions", they fall under the same category. First off, use `/use list` to see the items used in the `use` command.
All the items we'll list here are used with `/use item item:<name>`. You can use several items at once with `~>use item item:<name> amount:<amount>`.

:include-template: assets/templates/template-3-column-card.ftl {
items: [
{
name: "Haste Potion",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/sake.svg",
description: "Allows you to collect more stuff from currency commands for 2 sessions.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
obtain: "Market"
}},
{
name: "Milky Potion",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/cup-with-straw.svg",
description: "Clears all potion effects.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
obtain: "Market"
}},
{
name: "Energy Beverage",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/amphora.svg",
description: "Makes a tool lose less durability per swing. Lasts 3 sessions.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
obtain: "Market"
}},
{
name: "Mop",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/broom.svg",
description: "A delightful way to clean all the dust you have around. I bet there's a lot of it.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
obtain: "Market"
}},
{
name: "Waifu Pill",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/pill.svg",
description: "Gives you a significant advantage on mine and fish if one of your waifus is valued at over 20,000. Lasts 3 sessions.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
obtain: "Market"
}},
{
name: "Fishing Bait",
icon: "assets/images/emotes/bug.svg",
description: "Gives you a higher chance of catching fish.",
rarity: "Common",
api: {
obtain: "Market"
}},
]
}


*For potions that affect drop rates: These will affect the drop rate of all items minus Sparkle Fragments.

## Crates
If you were lucky (or if you have [Premium](https://github.com/Mantaro/MantaroBot/wiki/Premium-Perks) and used `/dailycrate`) then you might have already found a Crate.
Crates are rare drops from some currency commands. When you open them you will get random items depending on the type of crate you open. To open a Crate first your need to buy a Crate Key from the market.
After that you can use `/opencrate crate:<name of crate>` to open the Crate. If you are still having trouble, go to our [Item Documentation page](https://github.com/Mantaro/MantaroBot/wiki/Item-Documentation#crate-items) you can find a section with all the Crate types and their specific commands.

---
# Credits - More money commands
You are probably wondering if there are any other ways of getting credits aside from the ones you have already learned, and yes, there are.
In this section we'll try to teach you a few other commands that may be useful on getting more credits. Some are relatively safe, and some are more on the risky side.

## Transferitems/Transfer
Chances are, unless you are alone in a server with a bot, there are other people in the server with you.
In those cases you can work together with friends, trade items and/or credits with them to reach your goals.\
To transfer items you can use `/transferitems user:<mention> item:<name> amount:{amount}`.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/item-transfer.png

To transfer credits you can use `/transfer user:<mention> money:<amount>`.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/money-transfer.png

**Note on the Transfer command:**\
Due to a previous iteration of the currency system that had several bugs, credits became heavily inflated. People were abusing this, and we had to introduce a transfer tax.
Not long ago from the time of writing this (November 27, 2020) we performed a Currency reset to try to fix this issue. However, people still found ways to abuse the systems we have.
For this reason, we decided to leave in the credit tax. As well, we made it so that you **cannot** transfer credits to or from a new Discord account.
We also limited the max amount of credits you can transfer to 500,000 and increased considerably the ratelimit of the Transfer command.

While these measures may disappear or be changed in the future, we feel the need to explain why they are there in the first place. We thank everyone for their understanding.

## Games
```attention-note
These commands (game commands) have not yet been ported to slash commands. You will have to use them the old
text based way.
```

Mantaro offers 3 types of games which can each earn you some credits.\
All the games below (except trivia) can be started using `~>game <type>`.
You can start multiple instances of a single game using `~>game multiple <type> <amount>`.\
You can start multiple games in a lobby using `~>game lobby <types>` for instance `~>game lobby pokemon, trivia`.\
You can play with people by simply mentioning them at the very end of the command.

### Trivia
Unlike the other game commands, trivia can be used with `~>trivia` or `~>trivia <difficulty>` where difficulty can be easy, medium or hard.\
However if you want to play multiple instances after another or have it be part of the lobby you would still refer to the above. (Note that appending the difficulty works on multiple and lobby as well using `-diff <difficulty>`)

Trivia is essentially a game of answering the asked question. The difficulty you pick will determine how many credits you get.
You get 2 attempts to solve normal questions and one for true and false questions.\
Due to technical limitations you may not specify a category.

### Pokeguess (Who is that pokemon)
You can start this game with `~>game pokemon`.\
Pokeguess is a simple game of being shown a silhouette of a specific pokemon (and sometimes a very specific form of it).\
You then get 4-5 attempts to guess the pokemon correctly. If you do, you will be rewarded a handful of credits.

### Number
You can start this game with `~>game number`.\
This is by far the hardest game. You will be asked to guess a number between 0 and 150 within 5 attempts and 30 seconds.\
You will get hints whether the number is lower or higher than you last guess. Guessing right will reward you a handful of credits.

### Character
You can start this game with `~>game character`.\
In this game you will be shown an anime character.
You then get 4-5 attempts to guess either their full name, or their first name. Guessing correctly will grant you a handful of credits.

## Gamble
Gamble is arguably the best for making fast money however it does come with a risk. **The odds are not in your favor**\
You can initiate a gamble by using `/gamble amount:<amount>`. The minimum amount is 100 credits, and the maximum is 10,000 credits. You can also type "all", "half" or "quarter" for the respective amount of your total credits (Assuming it falls in the range of credits given before).\
With a bit of luck you get to keep what you bet and win some extra credits, if you are out of luck you lose it all.\

## Slots
Slot is very similar to gamble however it has a higher chance of winning at the cost of a lower reward.\
You can roll the slots using `/slots credits:<amount>`. The minimum amount is 25 credits, and the maximum is 50,000 credits.\
You can also make use of slot tickets which you can buy from the market. You can however not combine tickets with credits and vice versa.
Tickets can be used by issuing the command like so: `/slots useticket:True` or `~>slots useticket:True ticketamount:<amount>` for multiple.

---
# More - A few other commands
This section is to mention a few commands that are part of the currency system, but do not give credits or items.

## Reputation
Reputation is basically just a number that you can be proud of. Every 12 hours you can give someone 1 reputation point using `/reputation user:<mention>`. You cannot give reputation to yourself.\
Your reputation counter does not affect you in most situations. It can serve as bragging rights, or to get you ranked on our leaderboards (which we'll cover later).
You can check your reputation on your profile.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/reputation-highlighted.png

## Badges
While using Mantaro's currency you may stumble across the fact that you have earned badges.
Badges essentially are achievements. Some are easy to get, some a hard to get.
Some even are tied to riddles, and you won't know how to get them based on other people's badge list.\
To check your badges use `/badges show`.
For more information regarding badges you can click [here](https://github.com/Mantaro/MantaroBot/wiki/Badge-reference-and-documentation).

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/badges-show.png

## Marry
The marry command allows you to marry another user. To do so, you will first need to own 2 Rings.
Then, simply type `/marry user user:<mention>`. After that, the user you are marrying has to accept your marriage.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/marry-accept.gif

Once you are married, you can set both a Marry House and a Marry Car.
To set the Marry House you need to have a House on your inventory to set. Then, simply use `/marry house name:<name of your house>`.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/buy-house-confirm.gif

To set the Marry Car you need to have a Car on your inventory to set. Then, simply use `/marry car name:<name of your car>`.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/buy-car-confirm.gif

You may also end your marriage by typing `/divorce`.

:include-image: assets/images/examples/currency/103/divorce.gif

---
